Hello and welcome to Topic 13 of user Senate design.
NOTE CONF
This is the six and seven videos on satisfaction Measures.
So after studying this particular topic, you should be able
NOTE CONF
to analyse and present data from measures off satisfaction from
a usability evaluation.
NOTE CONF
Okay, So satisfaction represents a really important part of our
evaluation of the user interface, so we can measure how
NOTE CONF
fast and how error free and everything people are.
But we're also very interested in what they think about
NOTE CONF
how they feel about user interface serve you any way
we can get to this is to ask people about
NOTE CONF
their feelings and attitudes.
So we turned to use things like questionnaires.
NOTE CONF
So what we're going to do in this beer is
look at the data that we're collecting from questionnaires and
NOTE CONF
how we might analyse that.
So you can refer back Teo videos for Topic 12,
NOTE CONF
where we talked about some of these, you know, tools
that we're using questionnaire tools if you haven't done that
NOTE CONF
already.
Okay, so one of the first things one of the
NOTE CONF
first measures of satisfactions that we get from participants is
their task.
NOTE CONF
Difficulty rating.
All right, so remember, we've got like a task we
NOTE CONF
might get click some information from them, and this information
here would pertain Teo completion of the task.
NOTE CONF
But then we have our task.
Difficulty rating.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And this is the one where we're looking at people's
NOTE CONF
satisfaction.
Okay, so then we can when we finished the evaluation,
NOTE CONF
we can go and have a look at the Google
spreadsheet, and then we can see that there is a
NOTE CONF
row for every participant and that we will have, you
know, the information that the participant put in on in
NOTE CONF
particular for this, we're interested in the difficulty reading for
each of the task.
NOTE CONF
So here we've got Task one and the data for
each participant and task, too.
NOTE CONF
So it's not really rocket science doing this one.
A we really need to do is put in a
NOTE CONF
table so that your audience can see what the readings
were.
NOTE CONF
Each task so typically with our table's just like our
demographic table.
NOTE CONF
We want to match this up.
We'll have rules for each set, a participant data, and
NOTE CONF
then we've got columns for our data itself.
So here I've got two columns related to task difficulties.
NOTE CONF
So we've got for Task one and Task, too.
And then we put those in for each of those
NOTE CONF
tasks for each participant on DH.
Then later on will round out this table with our
NOTE CONF
sussed scores, and I recommend to a friend score a
couple of important notes about doing the table again.
NOTE CONF
Make sure that you've got a caption which describes what's
in the table and also explain your any ratings that
NOTE CONF
Aaron here, any metrics, So attacks difficulty.
One equals very easy.
NOTE CONF
Five equals very hard without this information.
It's like, really hard for people.
NOTE CONF
Teo interpret your table because they don't really know what
three or one is, which is good and which is
NOTE CONF
bad.
All right, so the next I'm questionnaire that we've got
NOTE CONF
is our system usability scale or arse us.
So you should remember this from your evaluation to on
NOTE CONF
DH here.
We've got our sets of questions each relating tio some
NOTE CONF
aspect of the EU's ability of the user interface and
remember that we've got our positive scored questions and are
NOTE CONF
negative.
Scored questions on that does give us some interesting challenges
NOTE CONF
when we're tryingto generate a score for these question it
this questionnaire so have.
NOTE CONF
First off, though, when you go into Google forms, you'll
notice that they have a summary of your data in
NOTE CONF
Google forms very helpfully, although unfortunately what Google Google form
Summary charts are not useful at all in this case.
NOTE CONF
All right, so this is not the way that we
represent this data.
NOTE CONF
What we're going to do is take calculate one score
that represents this us.
NOTE CONF
This's totally irrelevant and not useful.
So so do not use that.
NOTE CONF
Do not copy them.
Don't do anything with, um, don't don't ignore them completely.
NOTE CONF
What we need to do is get our data from
the spreadsheet and calculate the suss school.
NOTE CONF
Now you remember if you you remember, if you had
a look at the videos on the satisfaction question is
NOTE CONF
from Topic 12.
We talked about the idea of the positive and negative
NOTE CONF
scoring on, also that we need to multiply by 2.5
that final score to get a score out of 100.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look at our spreadsheet.
So we've got our positively schooled questions, and with our
NOTE CONF
positives, Lee scored questions.
If someone strongly agrees, then that is four points.
NOTE CONF
All right, which is the way it was scored in
the Google form.
NOTE CONF
Naturally, however, and so we can use that number when
we're calculating our suss score without any changes.
NOTE CONF
So that's fine.
But for negatively scored square questions, the strongly agree we
NOTE CONF
should score is four.
However, however, for the negatively school question, we want to
NOTE CONF
strongly agree to equal zero.
Okay, because if they strongly agree with the negative question
NOTE CONF
that that is really bad for our user interface.
So we need to actually just the school for that.
NOTE CONF
So we can calculate we'll get you reverse score by
subtracting our score from the highest school, which is for
NOTE CONF
well, that will give us a negative score of that
item.
NOTE CONF
All right, so then what we need we can just
do that for all the others.
NOTE CONF
So again, positive school.
We just leave for the negative school we have Teo,
NOTE CONF
subtract the participants school from four and so on.
Okay, so that will help us know some the scores.
NOTE CONF
But ultimately, when we do our final calculation, you have
to remember that you need Teo multiply by 2.5 to
NOTE CONF
get that final score.
All right, so here we have an example.
NOTE CONF
This is the formula that you end up within Google
spreadsheets.
NOTE CONF
Your columns maybe different.
So differently labelled.
NOTE CONF
So just watch out.
Make sure that you have the right labels here might
NOTE CONF
not not be the same for you And then at
the end, you'll have your score.
NOTE CONF
A case of this formula is in this cell here
on you, Khun drag down so that you can calculate
NOTE CONF
a ll The other one's a CZ.
Well, all right, so it's a little bit tricky, but
NOTE CONF
not impossible.
So if your score is particularly, these are very low
NOTE CONF
scores.
Normally, schools are a lot higher than this, but this
NOTE CONF
was scores from our test run of the practise evaluation
in week seven.
NOTE CONF
So I don't think people are really thinking too highly
about it when they did it.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so when you've got yourself scores, then you can
put them in your satisfaction table on Dhere.
NOTE CONF
We have sussed scores than for each participant on.
We really do want try and much up.
NOTE CONF
You know, each one.
All right.
NOTE CONF
And so the final piece of data for our satisfaction
scores is our recommend to a friend.
NOTE CONF
So in one of your spreads.
Google forms.
NOTE CONF
You've got your post study questions.
What did you like most?
NOTE CONF
What did you like, Lise?
How could it be improved?
NOTE CONF
All right, so that's a couple of one's.
What we're looking at here is that How likely is
NOTE CONF
it that you would recommend this prototype to a friend
or colleague?
NOTE CONF
All right, so we're looking here.
Yep.
NOTE CONF
Number five.
So we've got that.
NOTE CONF
And we've got No Yes, Yes, yes, yes, yes.
For each of our participants.
NOTE CONF
So all we need to do is tow.
Add that into the table.
NOTE CONF
All right.
And now we have our recommend to a friend score
NOTE CONF
as well.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So that gives us our data for satisfaction.
Well, not all of it.
NOTE CONF
Because we've got one more set on.
That is our open questions.
NOTE CONF
So our comments that people have and remember, we have
our what did you like most?
NOTE CONF
All right, so here is some things about what people
said about what they like most.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so when you're looking at comment data, sometimes it's
helpful to go and see if you can see a
NOTE CONF
theme in the data.
And it's clear in this particular data that we have
NOTE CONF
things like, You know, the issues with the food menus
menus have complicated.
NOTE CONF
The menu option is hard.
The menu was confusing, finding the food hard to find.
NOTE CONF
So there's a rial theme throughout this comments, indicating that
there does seem to be an issue with trying to
NOTE CONF
find the food so we can use these comments on
their own.
NOTE CONF
But we can also use them to help illustrate how
people went on tasks so later in interpretation, we'll talk
NOTE CONF
about this idea of convergence of data.
So that is, you know, you've got lots of errors.
NOTE CONF
You've got poor task completion.
You've got long task times on.
NOTE CONF
Then you can have these comments which help illustrate you
know what is causing those debt issues in the performance
NOTE CONF
data?
Well, the other day, you want them altered to head
NOTE CONF
together.
All right, s o.
NOTE CONF
That's the end of looking at satisfaction measures.
Eso we've got to calculate we've got extract dust difficulties
NOTE CONF
to calculate our suss, score, extract, recommendation, score and also
finally looked through the comments and see if there's anything
NOTE CONF
there that we can get Teo help guide us in
what understanding any problems that the EU's had.
NOTE CONF
All right, well, that's it for the satisfaction measures.
Join me, which is the last set of measures.
NOTE CONF
Join me for the next video where we talk about
data interpretation.
NOTE CONF
I see that.